docs/Microk8s-install-pi.md, before:

## Instructions to get Microk8s working on Raspberry-Pi

WIP - cannot get my applications to start in K8s. DNS does not seem to be working.

Things not working:
1. Kiali cannot find prometheus on home screen prometheus.local



These are my notes for creating a Microk8s cluster on Raspberry Pis.

I have included instructions on using Rancher-Desktop Docker and the changes needed for Rancher-Desktop internal tooling.

### Original Microk8s install for Raspberry Pi instructions

[Ubuntu Microk8s Pi cluster](https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/how-to-kubernetes-cluster-on-raspberry-pi#1-overview)

## Changes to your laptop/computer

### /etc/hosts on your local machine

local changes to your `/etc/hosts` to use nginx-ingress with the microk8s cluster.

change `192.168.XX.XX` to the IP Address of a Worker Node raspberrypi. 

```bash
export REGISTRY_IP=XXX.XXX.XX.XX;
sudo bash -c "cat >> /etc/hosts << EOF
$REGISTRY_IP k-dashboard.local jaeger.local otel-collector.local grafana.local prometheus.local kiali.local album-store.local proxy-serivce.local registry.local
EOF";
```

### Mac/Apple Rancher-Desktop with Docker to use insecure registry

**The following needs to be run each time the computer is restarted or Rancher Desktop is updated.**

This allows docker to push to the microk8s registry that is running on http

You must change `export REGISTRY_IP=XXX.XXX.XX.XX;` to be the IP of one of the worker nodes.

```bash
LIMA_HOME="$HOME/Library/Application Support/rancher-desktop/lima" "/Applications/Rancher Desktop.app/Contents/Resources/resources/darwin/lima/bin/limactl" shell 0;
sudo sed -i 's/DOCKER_OPTS=\"\"/DOCKER_OPTS=\"--insecure-registry=registry.local:32000\"/g' /etc/conf.d/docker;
sudo service docker restart;
export REGISTRY_IP=XXX.XXX.XX.XX;
sudo bash -c "cat >> /etc/hosts << EOF
$REGISTRY_IP registry.local
EOF";
exit;
```

#### Docker Error messages you will get if above is not done

The first section on `DOCKER_OPTS` fixes the following:

You will get an error message when you try and do a `docker image push.` if your registry is not in your DOCKER_OPTS

`docker image push registry.local:32000/album-store:latest;`

The error message looks like this:

```
The push refers to repository [registry.local:32000/album-store]
Get https://registry.local:32000/v2/: http: server gave HTTP response to HTTPS client
```

The Second section on `/etc/hosts` fixes the following error from Rancher-Desktop Docker not resolving the registry

```
docker push registry.local:32000/album-store:0.2.2;
The push refers to repository [registry.local:32000/album-store]
Get "http://registry.local:32000/v2/": dial tcp: lookup registry.local: Try again
```

## Post install instructions 

### Turn on services (Control Plane and all Worker Nodes)

```bash
  sudo systemctl enable ssh;
  # sudo ufw enable; # disabled until all ports are known 
 ```

### Install Docker & allow running Docker as current user (Control Plane and all Worker Nodes)
 ```bash
  sudo apt-get install docker.io;
  sudo usermod -aG docker $USER;
  sudo groupadd docker;
  newgrp docker;
```

## allow access to Microk8s as current user (Control Plane and all Worker Nodes)
```bash
  sudo usermod -aG microk8s $USER;
  sudo groupadd microk8s;
  newgrp microk8s;
```

### Create Docker Registry (Control Plane and all Worker Nodes) 

```bash
sudo bash -c "cat > /etc/docker/daemon.json << EOF 
{
  \"insecure-registries\" : [\"localhost:32000\"]
}
EOF";
sudo systemctl restart docker;
```

### Enable microk8s services that are needed to run this cluster (Control Plane)

```bash
microk8s.kubectl get nodes;
microk8s enable community;
microk8s enable hostpath-storage; # needed for Jaeger to mount a volume
microk8s enable dns; # needed for default DNS resolution
microk8s enable registry # allow saving of local docker images
microk8s enable metrics-server # see metrics for autoscaling  
 ```

### istio fixes (Control Plane and all Worker Nodes)

One needs to add entries to give a istio some information about the clusterIP so it can work properly.

The DNS for each node in the cluster needs some modification this is done in the `/etc/resolve.conf` file as below.

```bash
export CLUSTER_DNS=$(kubectl -nkube-system get svc/kube-dns -o jsonpath="{.spec.clusterIP}");
sudo bash -c "cat >> /var/snap/microk8s/current/args/kubelet << EOF
--cluster-domain=cluster.local
--cluster-dns=$CLUSTER_DNS
EOF";
sudo snap stop microk8s; sudo snap start microk8s;
sudo sed -i 's/#Domains=/Domains=svc.cluster.local cluster.local/g' /etc/systemd/resolved.conf;
sudo systemctl restart systemd-resolved;
```

## Build Project

```bash
  make docker-tag-microk8s-album-proxy;
  cd proxy;
  make docker-tag-microk8s-registry-proxy;
  cd ..;
```

## Install all tooling and run applications. 

Replace XXX.XXX.XX.XX; with your ip address of one of the worker nodes.

If you have multiple worker nodes you will have to modify the skaffold to include all your IPs.

```bash
  export ISTIO_GATEWAY_EXTERNAL_IP=XXX.XXX.XX.XX;
  make skaffold-microk8s-dev;
  cd proxy
```

## View Services

This is reliant upon you having made the /etc/hosts changes at the top.

Services:
* [Jaeger to see observability spans](http://jaeger.local)
* [Prometheus](http://prometheus.local)
* [Grafana](http://grafana.local)
* [Kubernetes dashboard for visualising the cluster](http://k-dashboard.local)
* [Kiali to visualise Istio](http://kiali.local)
  * generate token `kubectl -n istio-system create token kiali;`

Applications:
* [Album Store](http://album-store.local)
* [Proxy Service](http://proxy-service.local)

## (Note) about Istio DNS and application start time.

We need this as istio-gateway needs istiod. Gateway should search the cluster to find istiod.

You need to have istiod running before installing istio-gateway.

In skaffold you have to add `wait: true` in the istiod before installing istio-gateway.

```skaffold
  - name: istiod
    remoteChart: istiod
    version: 1.17.2
    repo: https://istio-release.storage.googleapis.com/charts
    namespace: istio-system
    createNamespace: true
    wait: true # have to wait so ready when gateway asks for istiod
    valuesFiles: ["./install/values/microk8s/istio-istiod.values.yaml"]
```

[Skaffold file example](../install/skaffold-microk8s.yaml)




## (WIP) Firewall

WIP not yet flushed out.  

Istio-Gateway was not finding istiod and failing to launch if ufw rules are set. 

### Firewall Rules (Control Plane)

```bash
#sudo ufw enable;
#sudo ufw allow 22/tcp; # ssh
#sudo ufw allow 53/tcp; # dns
#sudo ufw allow 80/tcp; # http
#sudo ufw allow 443/tcp; # k8s metrics port
#sudo ufw allow 2379:2380/tcp; # etcd  
#sudo ufw allow 6443/tcp; # kubectl api port
#sudo ufw allow 8001/tcp; # istio liveness
#sudo ufw allow 8080/tcp; # istio debug port
#sudo ufw allow 8081/tcp; # kube telemetry port
#sudo ufw allow 9153/tcp; # prometheus metrics port
#sudo ufw allow 9100/tcp; # prometheus node exporter 
#sudo ufw allow 9091/tcp; # prometheus push gateway 
#sudo ufw allow 9093/tcp; # prometheus alert manager  
#sudo ufw allow 10250:10252/tcp; # kubelet, kube-schedule, kube-controller 
#sudo ufw allow 10255/tcp; # kubelet
#sudo ufw allow 10257/tcp; # kube-scheduler-manager
#sudo ufw allow 10259/tcp; # kube-scheduler
#sudo ufw allow 16443/tcp; # kubectl
#sudo ufw allow 25000/tcp; # worker nodes to join the node group
#sudo ufw allow 15000/tcp; # istio envoy admin
#sudo ufw allow 15001/tcp; # istio envoy outbound
#sudo ufw allow 15004/tcp; # istio envoy debug
#sudo ufw allow 15006/tcp; # istio envoy inbound
#sudo ufw allow 15008:15009/tcp; #istio hbone traffic
#sudo ufw allow 15010/tcp; # istio xds and ca
#sudo ufw allow 15012/tcp; # istio xds and ca
#sudo ufw allow 15014/tcp; # istiod control plane monitoring
#sudo ufw allow 15017/tcp; # istiod webhook container port
#sudo ufw allow 15020/tcp; # istio status
#sudo ufw allow 15021/tcp; # istio health check
#sudo ufw allow 15053/tcp; # istio dns capture
#sudo ufw allow 15090/tcp; # istio envoy prometheus
#sudo ufw allow 32000/tcp; # docker registry
```

### Firewall Rules (Worker Node)

```bash
#sudo ufw enable;
#sudo ufw allow 22/tcp; # ssh
#sudo ufw allow 53/tcp; # dns
#sudo ufw allow 80/tcp; # http
#sudo ufw allow 443/tcp; # k8s metrics port
#sudo ufw allow 2379:2380/tcp; # etcd 
#sudo ufw allow 6443/tcp; # kubectl api port 
#sudo ufw allow 8001/tcp; # istio liveness?
#sudo ufw allow 8080/tcp; # istio debug port
#sudo ufw allow 9153/tcp; # prometheus metrics port 
#sudo ufw allow 9100/tcp; # prometheus node exporter 
#sudo ufw allow 9091/tcp; # prometheus push gateway 
#sudo ufw allow 9093/tcp; # prometheus alert manager 
#sudo ufw allow 10250:10252/tcp; # kubelet, kube-schedule, kube-controller
#sudo ufw allow 10255/tcp;
#sudo ufw allow 10259/tcp; # kube-scheduler
#sudo ufw allow 10257/tcp; # kube-scheduler-manager
#sudo ufw allow 15000/tcp; #istio envoy admin
#sudo ufw allow 15001/tcp; #istio envoy outbound
#sudo ufw allow 15004/tcp; #istio envoy debug
#sudo ufw allow 15006/tcp; #istio envoy inbound
#sudo ufw allow 15008:15009/tcp; #istio hbone traffic
#sudo ufw allow 15010/tcp; # istio xds and ca
#sudo ufw allow 15012/tcp; # istio xds and ca
#sudo ufw allow 15014/tcp; # istiod control plane monitoring
#sudo ufw allow 15017/tcp; # istiod webhook container port
#sudo ufw allow 15020/tcp; # istio status
#sudo ufw allow 15021/tcp; # istio health check
#sudo ufw allow 15053/tcp; # istio dns capture
#sudo ufw allow 15090/tcp; # istio envoy prometheus
#sudo ufw allow 16443/tcp; # kubectl 
#sudo ufw allow 25000/tcp; # worker nodes to join the node group
#sudo ufw allow 30000:32767/tcp; # allow external traffic
```


## Bibliography

[resolv.conf issues and cluster resolution for istio base](https://rtfm.co.ua/en/kubernetes-load-testing-and-high-load-tuning-problems-and-solutions/#php_network_getaddresses_getaddrinfo_failed_%D0%B8_DNS)

[Microk8s registry](https://microk8s.io/docs/registry-built-in)

[Rancher Desktop fix docker for insecure registries](https://github.com/rancher-sandbox/rancher-desktop/discussions/1477#discussioncomment-2106389)

Commit message:

adding more labels to all pods for istio in helm charts. Upgrade a few charts

docs/Microk8s-install-pi.md, after:

## Instructions to get Microk8s working on Raspberry-Pi

Things not working:
Kiali is saying are not in istio even with the label on the namespace.

   1. jaeger
   1. prometheus
   1. grafana
   1. custom dashboards

These are my notes for creating a Microk8s cluster on Raspberry Pis.

I have included instructions on using Rancher-Desktop Docker and the changes needed for Rancher-Desktop internal tooling.

### Original Microk8s install for Raspberry Pi instructions

[Ubuntu Microk8s Pi cluster](https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/how-to-kubernetes-cluster-on-raspberry-pi#1-overview)

## Changes to your laptop/computer

### /etc/hosts on your local machine

local changes to your `/etc/hosts` to use nginx-ingress with the microk8s cluster.

change `192.168.XX.XX` to the IP Address of a Worker Node raspberrypi. 

```bash
export REGISTRY_IP=XXX.XXX.XX.XX;
sudo bash -c "cat >> /etc/hosts << EOF
$REGISTRY_IP k-dashboard.local jaeger.local otel-collector.local grafana.local prometheus.local kiali.local album-store.local proxy-serivce.local registry.local
EOF";
```

### Mac/Apple Rancher-Desktop with Docker to use insecure registry

**The following needs to be run each time the computer is restarted or Rancher Desktop is updated.**

This allows docker to push to the microk8s registry that is running on http

You must change `export REGISTRY_IP=XXX.XXX.XX.XX;` to be the IP of one of the worker nodes.

```bash
LIMA_HOME="$HOME/Library/Application Support/rancher-desktop/lima" "/Applications/Rancher Desktop.app/Contents/Resources/resources/darwin/lima/bin/limactl" shell 0;
sudo sed -i 's/DOCKER_OPTS=\"\"/DOCKER_OPTS=\"--insecure-registry=registry.local:32000\"/g' /etc/conf.d/docker;
sudo service docker restart;
export REGISTRY_IP=XXX.XXX.XX.XX;
sudo bash -c "cat >> /etc/hosts << EOF
$REGISTRY_IP registry.local
EOF";
exit;
```

#### Docker Error messages you will get if above is not done

The first section on `DOCKER_OPTS` fixes the following:

You will get an error message when you try and do a `docker image push.` if your registry is not in your DOCKER_OPTS

`docker image push registry.local:32000/album-store:latest;`

The error message looks like this:

```
The push refers to repository [registry.local:32000/album-store]
Get https://registry.local:32000/v2/: http: server gave HTTP response to HTTPS client
```

The Second section on `/etc/hosts` fixes the following error from Rancher-Desktop Docker not resolving the registry

```
docker push registry.local:32000/album-store:0.2.2;
The push refers to repository [registry.local:32000/album-store]
Get "http://registry.local:32000/v2/": dial tcp: lookup registry.local: Try again
```

## Post install instructions 

### Turn on services (Control Plane and all Worker Nodes)

```bash
  sudo systemctl enable ssh;
  # sudo ufw enable; # disabled until all ports are known 
 ```

### Install Docker & allow running Docker as current user (Control Plane and all Worker Nodes)
 ```bash
  sudo apt-get install docker.io;
  sudo usermod -aG docker $USER;
  sudo groupadd docker;
  newgrp docker;
```

## allow access to Microk8s as current user (Control Plane and all Worker Nodes)
```bash
  sudo usermod -aG microk8s $USER;
  sudo groupadd microk8s;
  newgrp microk8s;
```

### Create Docker Registry (Control Plane and all Worker Nodes) 

```bash
sudo bash -c "cat > /etc/docker/daemon.json << EOF 
{
  \"insecure-registries\" : [\"localhost:32000\"]
}
EOF";
sudo systemctl restart docker;
```

### Enable microk8s services that are needed to run this cluster (Control Plane)

```bash
microk8s.kubectl get nodes;
microk8s enable community;
microk8s enable hostpath-storage; # needed for Jaeger to mount a volume
microk8s enable dns; # needed for default DNS resolution
microk8s enable registry # allow saving of local docker images
microk8s enable metrics-server # see metrics for autoscaling  
 ```

### istio fixes (Control Plane and all Worker Nodes)

One needs to add entries to give a istio some information about the clusterIP so it can work properly.

The DNS for each node in the cluster needs some modification this is done in the `/etc/resolve.conf` file as below.

```bash
export CLUSTER_DNS=$(kubectl -nkube-system get svc/kube-dns -o jsonpath="{.spec.clusterIP}");
sudo bash -c "cat >> /var/snap/microk8s/current/args/kubelet << EOF
--cluster-domain=cluster.local
--cluster-dns=$CLUSTER_DNS
EOF";
sudo snap stop microk8s; sudo snap start microk8s;
sudo sed -i 's/#Domains=/Domains=svc.cluster.local cluster.local/g' /etc/systemd/resolved.conf;
sudo systemctl restart systemd-resolved;
```

## Build Project

```bash
  make docker-tag-microk8s-album-proxy;
  cd proxy;
  make docker-tag-microk8s-registry-proxy;
  cd ..;
```

## Install all tooling and run applications. 

Replace XXX.XXX.XX.XX; with your ip address of one of the worker nodes.

If you have multiple worker nodes you will have to modify the skaffold to include all your IPs.

```bash
  export ISTIO_GATEWAY_EXTERNAL_IP=XXX.XXX.XX.XX;
  make skaffold-microk8s-dev;
  cd proxy
```

## View Services

This is reliant upon you having made the /etc/hosts changes at the top.

Services:
* [Jaeger to see observability spans](http://jaeger.local)
* [Prometheus](http://prometheus.local)
* [Grafana](http://grafana.local)
* [Kubernetes dashboard for visualising the cluster](http://k-dashboard.local)
* [Kiali to visualise Istio](http://kiali.local)
  * generate token `kubectl -n istio-system create token kiali;`

Applications:
* [Album Store](http://album-store.local)
* [Proxy Service](http://proxy-service.local)

## (Note) about Istio DNS and application start time.

We need this as istio-gateway needs istiod. Gateway should search the cluster to find istiod.

You need to have istiod running before installing istio-gateway.

In skaffold you have to add `wait: true` in the istiod before installing istio-gateway.

```skaffold
  - name: istiod
    remoteChart: istiod
    version: 1.17.2
    repo: https://istio-release.storage.googleapis.com/charts
    namespace: istio-system
    createNamespace: true
    wait: true # have to wait so ready when gateway asks for istiod
    valuesFiles: ["./install/values/microk8s/istio-istiod.values.yaml"]
```

[Skaffold file example](../install/skaffold-microk8s.yaml)




## (WIP) Firewall

WIP not yet flushed out.  

Istio-Gateway was not finding istiod and failing to launch if ufw rules are set. 

### Firewall Rules (Control Plane)

```bash
#sudo ufw enable;
#sudo ufw allow 22/tcp; # ssh
#sudo ufw allow 53/tcp; # dns
#sudo ufw allow 80/tcp; # http
#sudo ufw allow 443/tcp; # k8s metrics port
#sudo ufw allow 2379:2380/tcp; # etcd  
#sudo ufw allow 6443/tcp; # kubectl api port
#sudo ufw allow 8001/tcp; # istio liveness
#sudo ufw allow 8080/tcp; # istio debug port
#sudo ufw allow 8081/tcp; # kube telemetry port
#sudo ufw allow 9153/tcp; # prometheus metrics port
#sudo ufw allow 9100/tcp; # prometheus node exporter 
#sudo ufw allow 9091/tcp; # prometheus push gateway 
#sudo ufw allow 9093/tcp; # prometheus alert manager  
#sudo ufw allow 10250:10252/tcp; # kubelet, kube-schedule, kube-controller 
#sudo ufw allow 10255/tcp; # kubelet
#sudo ufw allow 10257/tcp; # kube-scheduler-manager
#sudo ufw allow 10259/tcp; # kube-scheduler
#sudo ufw allow 16443/tcp; # kubectl
#sudo ufw allow 25000/tcp; # worker nodes to join the node group
#sudo ufw allow 15000/tcp; # istio envoy admin
#sudo ufw allow 15001/tcp; # istio envoy outbound
#sudo ufw allow 15004/tcp; # istio envoy debug
#sudo ufw allow 15006/tcp; # istio envoy inbound
#sudo ufw allow 15008:15009/tcp; #istio hbone traffic
#sudo ufw allow 15010/tcp; # istio xds and ca
#sudo ufw allow 15012/tcp; # istio xds and ca
#sudo ufw allow 15014/tcp; # istiod control plane monitoring
#sudo ufw allow 15017/tcp; # istiod webhook container port
#sudo ufw allow 15020/tcp; # istio status
#sudo ufw allow 15021/tcp; # istio health check
#sudo ufw allow 15053/tcp; # istio dns capture
#sudo ufw allow 15090/tcp; # istio envoy prometheus
#sudo ufw allow 32000/tcp; # docker registry
```

### Firewall Rules (Worker Node)

```bash
#sudo ufw enable;
#sudo ufw allow 22/tcp; # ssh
#sudo ufw allow 53/tcp; # dns
#sudo ufw allow 80/tcp; # http
#sudo ufw allow 443/tcp; # k8s metrics port
#sudo ufw allow 2379:2380/tcp; # etcd 
#sudo ufw allow 6443/tcp; # kubectl api port 
#sudo ufw allow 8001/tcp; # istio liveness?
#sudo ufw allow 8080/tcp; # istio debug port
#sudo ufw allow 9153/tcp; # prometheus metrics port 
#sudo ufw allow 9100/tcp; # prometheus node exporter 
#sudo ufw allow 9091/tcp; # prometheus push gateway 
#sudo ufw allow 9093/tcp; # prometheus alert manager 
#sudo ufw allow 10250:10252/tcp; # kubelet, kube-schedule, kube-controller
#sudo ufw allow 10255/tcp;
#sudo ufw allow 10259/tcp; # kube-scheduler
#sudo ufw allow 10257/tcp; # kube-scheduler-manager
#sudo ufw allow 15000/tcp; #istio envoy admin
#sudo ufw allow 15001/tcp; #istio envoy outbound
#sudo ufw allow 15004/tcp; #istio envoy debug
#sudo ufw allow 15006/tcp; #istio envoy inbound
#sudo ufw allow 15008:15009/tcp; #istio hbone traffic
#sudo ufw allow 15010/tcp; # istio xds and ca
#sudo ufw allow 15012/tcp; # istio xds and ca
#sudo ufw allow 15014/tcp; # istiod control plane monitoring
#sudo ufw allow 15017/tcp; # istiod webhook container port
#sudo ufw allow 15020/tcp; # istio status
#sudo ufw allow 15021/tcp; # istio health check
#sudo ufw allow 15053/tcp; # istio dns capture
#sudo ufw allow 15090/tcp; # istio envoy prometheus
#sudo ufw allow 16443/tcp; # kubectl 
#sudo ufw allow 25000/tcp; # worker nodes to join the node group
#sudo ufw allow 30000:32767/tcp; # allow external traffic
```


## Bibliography

[resolv.conf issues and cluster resolution for istio base](https://rtfm.co.ua/en/kubernetes-load-testing-and-high-load-tuning-problems-and-solutions/#php_network_getaddresses_getaddrinfo_failed_%D0%B8_DNS)

[Microk8s registry](https://microk8s.io/docs/registry-built-in)

[Rancher Desktop fix docker for insecure registries](https://github.com/rancher-sandbox/rancher-desktop/discussions/1477#discussioncomment-2106389)
